*****************
Armature Reaction
*****************

#AltAlthough the armature-reaction mmf modifies the airgap flux-density, it does not figure in the torque expression unless it significantly affects the saturation level of the magnetic circuit . Physically the stator may be regarded as being incapable of producing torque on itself. The armature reaction flux does, however, rotate and induce a voltage drop in the phase windings, which must be overcome by the supply voltage :cite:`miller:1989`.

#The effect of Armature (stator) flux on the flux produced by the rotor field poles is called Armature Reaction. When the current flows through the armature winding of the an alternator, a flux is produced by the resulting MMF. This armature flux reacts with the main pole flux, causing the resultant flux to become either less than or more than the original main field flux [Armature Reaction in a Synchronous Machine].

#Armature winding in an electrical machine is the winding which carries the load current. Under no-load condition, the armature current is zero. But as the machine is loaded, load current flows through the armature winding and creates magnetic flux. The effect of armature winding mmf or flux on the main working flux created by field poles is called the armature reaction [Armature Reaction in Alternator or Synchronous Machine].

#To better understand the armature reaction in synchronous machine, it is essential to first understand the internal happening. For this purpose the alternator operation is considered under different operating power factor and loads as follows [Armature Reaction in Alternator or Synchronous Machine]:

- No-load Operation
-  Unity power factor (pf) load
- Zero power factor lagging load
- Zero power factor leading load
- Lagging power factor load

.. rubric:: No-load Operation:

#As mentioned earlier, the current through the armature winding of alternator is zero for no-load operation; therefore there will not be any armature reaction. When the field winding is excited by a DC source and the alternator / generator is brought up to synchronous speed by adjusting the speed of prime-mover, no load voltage or excitation voltage is generated across the alternator armature terminals.
This generated excitation voltage across the armature terminal lags behind the field flux Øf by 90 degree. In general, the emf generated by the filed flux always lags behind the field flux by 90 degree in any machine [Armature Reaction in Alternator or Synchronous Machine].
