Electricity and Magnetism
*************************

#The notion that the phenomena of electricity and magnetism are interconnected was first proposed in the early 1800s by H. C. Oersted, a Danish physicist. Oersted showed that an electric current produces magnetic effects (more specifically, a magnetic field). Soon after, the French scientist Andr´e Marie Amp`ere expressed this relationship by means of a precise formulation, known as Amp`ere’s law. A few years later, the English scientist Faraday illustrated how the converse of Amp`ere’s law also holds true, that is, that a magnetic field can generate an electric field; in short, Faraday’s law states that a changing magnetic field gives rise to a voltage. We shall undertake a more careful examination of both Amp`ere’s and Faraday’s laws in the course of this chapter. As will be explained in the next few sections, the magnetic field forms a necessary connection between electrical and mechanical energy. Ampere’s and Faraday’s laws will formally illustrate the relationship between electric and magnetic fields, but it should already be evident from your own individual experience that the magnetic field can also convert magnetic energy to mechanical energy (for example, by lifting a piece of iron with a magnet). In effect, the devices we commonly refer to as electromechanical should more properly be referred to as electromagnetomechanical, since they almost invariably operate through a conversion from electrical to mechanical energy (or vice versa) by means of a magnetic field. Chapters 16 through 18 are concerned with the use of electricity and magnetic materials for the purpose of converting electrical energy to mechanical, and back [Rizzoni G., 2005].
