Deleted Parts
=============

El-Hasan et al. presented design of modular (different number of stages) high speed coreless generator. Mathematical model derived from first principles analytically. In order to optimize magnet size calculation of inner and outer diameter was given. Wave winding was used. They noted that concept of electric and magnetic loading. "Determination of the electric loading necessitates the use of a voltage model based on the structure. The determination of magnetic loading concerns the optimization of magnet size, shape and orientation." Power output per unit volume was given. Windage losses and filling factor were calculated. Rotor stress for different number of poles and stages, generator efficiency versus stator turns per phase graphics were showed. Case machine was 50 kVA, 420 V, 50.000 rpm and 92% efficiency. Thus, there was any experimental machine [El Hasan et al., 2000]. 

Bumby and Martin presented design considerations of two rotor one stator air cored generator with circular magnets. Analytic analyses about magnetic field in air gap that was found by solving Laplace's equation, induced EMF by coil, coil inductance and resistance, magnetic closing force of rotors, eddy current loss in coils and power output were done. Also, FEA was done. Thermal model, AC and DC performance of generator were investigated. They noted that, maximum current density of stator coils 4\ \sfrac{A}{{mm}^2} Graphics in respect of air gap magnetic field, voltage, power, temperature and efficiency for 1 kW, 300 rpm, 16 poles and 12 coils generator [Bumby and Martin, 2005].

Fei and Luk presented design considerations of high speed AFPM machine. Analytical method with using sizing equation and 3D FEM were used. Efficiency and losses graphics and back EMF and output power versus different inner radius of circular coils were given. Effect of the coil inner radius based on the same winding fill factor and current density. Also, formulations of losses were given. Designed machine was 1 kW at 50000 rpm, 8 poles, 6 coils and 85% efficiency [Fei and Luk, 2008].

Lombard and Kamper investigated two rotor, one stator air cored AFPM machine. Lumped circuit model for peak air gap flux density and FEM were used to analyze the machine. The variable metric (quasi-Newton) method was used to optimize machine parameters. 3.5 kW, 1380 rpm, 8 poles and 32.8 A machine was constructed [Lombard and Kamper, 1999].

Sadeghierad et al. presented design consideretions of two stator with three rotor high speed coreless generator. Loss calculations were carried out with lumped magnetic circuit model and simulations were done with FEM. Loss graphics in regards to geometrical properties. Best range of outer diameter of rotor was below 27 cm and best range of air gap was between 2 mm and 6 mm. they noted that two types of bearings might be used that air and magnetic bearing. Performance analysis was based on 50 kW, 400 V, 50,000 rpm and 6 poles generator [Sadeghierad et al., 2007].

Sadeghierad et al. investigated magnetic modeling of three rotors, two stators, air cored high speed AFPM generator. In order to present magnetic model of AFPM machine, lumped circuit model was used. In addition, machine losses were presented with three main subject: mechanical, stator and rotor losses. 30 kW, 30,000 rpm, 400 V, 6 poles generator was designed and FEM results were acquired. Especially, flux leakage model between the magnets was detailed [Sadeghierad et al., 2008].  Main design parameters of FEM simulation were presented in another detailed work [Sadeghierad et al., 2009]. In addition, particularly investigation of Lambda=Do/Di was studied. Air gap flux density, voltage and efficiency variations versus a range of Lambda were presented. Inductance calculations with the aid of magnetic model was described. The best range for Lambda was found between about 0.3 to 0.5 [Sadeghierad et al., 2009].

Wang et al. investigated performance calculation and optimization of coreless one stator two rotor generator. Per phase equivalent circuit was produced and equivalent circuit parameters calculated by FEM and classical theory. Temperature dependent stator winding resistance, rms value of phase EMF, eddy-current losses, steady state electromagnetic torque, input shaft power formulations were described. They noted that there is no clear definition for main and leakage inductances in a coreless or slotless machine. Powell's method and the population based incremental learning (PBIL) algorithm were used for optimization that minimize the amount of PM material or maximize the efficiency of generator. As well as mechanical stress analysis of rotor discs were done. 10\ \sfrac{A}{{mm}^2} current density was proposed and was confirmed experimentally. For ease of connecting winding coils, four circular bus bars were used. Power and Phase voltage and current curves were present for 40 poles, 154 kW, 1950 rpm, %95.7 efficiency generator [Wang et al., 2005].

Hosseini et al. investigated design of a two rotor one stator coreless generator with rectangular magnets. Per phase equivalent circuit was present and inductances were calculated with FEM approach. Also, end winding inductance formulation was given. Friction and windage losses were formulated. Output voltage, power and efficiency graphics of generator that 390 W, 3000 rpm, 12 poles, 18 coils, 40 V, 78.1% efficiency were shown. Single layer windings were used. They noted that 23.8\ \sfrac{A}{{mm}^2} current density was given [Hosseini et al., 2008].
